# Frontend Implementation Requirements

## Introduction

This document outlines the requirements for implementing a comprehensive
frontend interface for the Zetra CA Platform, utilizing the existing robust
backend infrastructure and the modern purple-themed design system specified in
the design documentation.

## Requirements

### Requirement 1: Design System Implementation

**User Story:** As a user, I want a consistent, modern, and professional
interface that follows the established design system, so that I have a cohesive
experience across all features.

#### Acceptance Criteria

1. WHEN the application loads THEN the system SHALL implement the purple-themed
   design system with CSS variables:
   - Primary purple: #7C3AED
   - Dark purple: #5B21B6
   - Light purple: #A78BFA
   - Ultra light purple: #EDE9FE
   - Consistent gray scale from #F9FAFB to #111827

2. WHEN users interact with UI elements THEN the system SHALL provide smooth
   animations and transitions matching the design specification

3. WHEN the application is viewed on different devices THEN the system SHALL be
   fully responsive with mobile-first design principles

### Requirement 2: Authentication and Navigation System

**User Story:** As a user, I want to securely log in and navigate through the
platform with an intuitive interface, so that I can access all features
efficiently.

#### Acceptance Criteria

1. WHEN a user visits the platform THEN the system SHALL display a modern login
   interface with role-based demo credentials

2. WHEN a user successfully authenticates THEN the system SHALL redirect to a
   role-appropriate dashboard with proper navigation

3. WHEN a user navigates the platform THEN the system SHALL provide a fixed
   navigation bar with smooth transitions and active state indicators

4. WHEN a user logs out THEN the system SHALL clear authentication state and
   redirect to the login page

### Requirement 3: Comprehensive Dashboard Implementation

**User Story:** As a user with different roles (Partner, Manager, Associate,
Intern), I want to see a personalized dashboard with relevant metrics and quick
actions, so that I can efficiently manage my work.

#### Acceptance Criteria

1. WHEN a Partner logs in THEN the system SHALL display executive-level metrics,
   team performance, client overview, and strategic insights

2. WHEN a Manager logs in THEN the system SHALL display team management tools,
   task assignments, performance metrics, and approval workflows

3. WHEN an Associate logs in THEN the system SHALL display assigned tasks,
   client work, time tracking, and collaboration tools

4. WHEN an Intern logs in THEN the system SHALL display learning resources,
   assigned tasks, progress tracking, and mentorship tools

5. WHEN any user accesses the dashboard THEN the system SHALL provide real-time
   updates and interactive widgets

### Requirement 4: Task Management Interface

**User Story:** As a user, I want to manage tasks through multiple views
(Kanban, Calendar, List) with full CRUD operations, so that I can organize work
efficiently.

#### Acceptance Criteria

1. WHEN a user accesses task management THEN the system SHALL provide Kanban
   board, Calendar view, and List view options

2. WHEN a user creates a task THEN the system SHALL allow setting title,
   description, priority, assignee, due date, and tags

3. WHEN a user updates task status THEN the system SHALL reflect changes in
   real-time across all views

4. WHEN a user has appropriate permissions THEN the system SHALL allow bulk
   operations, task templates, and recurring task setup

5. WHEN tasks require approval THEN the system SHALL integrate with the approval
   workflow system

### Requirement 5: Document Management System

**User Story:** As a user, I want to upload, organize, search, and collaborate
on documents with version control, so that I can manage firm documentation
effectively.

#### Acceptance Criteria

1. WHEN a user accesses document management THEN the system SHALL display a
   folder tree, document list, and upload interface

2. WHEN a user uploads documents THEN the system SHALL support drag-and-drop,
   multiple file selection, and progress indicators

3. WHEN a user searches documents THEN the system SHALL provide full-text search
   with filters and suggestions

4. WHEN a user views documents THEN the system SHALL provide preview,
   annotation, commenting, and sharing capabilities

5. WHEN documents are modified THEN the system SHALL maintain version history
   with rollback capabilities

### Requirement 6: Email Integration Interface

**User Story:** As a user, I want to manage emails within the platform with task
conversion and template features, so that I can streamline communication
workflows.

#### Acceptance Criteria

1. WHEN a user accesses email THEN the system SHALL display inbox, folder tree,
   and email composition interface

2. WHEN a user reads emails THEN the system SHALL provide options to convert
   emails to tasks with AI suggestions

3. WHEN a user composes emails THEN the system SHALL provide templates,
   variables, and rich text editing

4. WHEN emails sync THEN the system SHALL display sync status and handle
   conflicts gracefully

5. WHEN emails require compliance tracking THEN the system SHALL integrate with
   audit and compliance systems

### Requirement 7: Real-time Chat System

**User Story:** As a user, I want to communicate with team members through
channels and direct messages with file sharing, so that I can collaborate
effectively.

#### Acceptance Criteria

1. WHEN a user accesses chat THEN the system SHALL display channel list, message
   area, and user list

2. WHEN a user sends messages THEN the system SHALL support real-time delivery,
   file attachments, and message threading

3. WHEN a user creates channels THEN the system SHALL allow different channel
   types (direct, group, task-based, client)

4. WHEN messages reference tasks or documents THEN the system SHALL provide rich
   previews and quick actions

5. WHEN users are offline THEN the system SHALL queue messages and sync when
   reconnected

### Requirement 8: Time Tracking Interface

**User Story:** As a user, I want to track time spent on tasks and projects with
reporting capabilities, so that I can monitor productivity and bill clients
accurately.

#### Acceptance Criteria

1. WHEN a user starts time tracking THEN the system SHALL provide a timer
   interface with task association

2. WHEN a user views time entries THEN the system SHALL display detailed logs
   with editing capabilities

3. WHEN a user manages budgets THEN the system SHALL provide budget creation,
   monitoring, and alerts

4. WHEN time reports are generated THEN the system SHALL provide various report
   formats and export options

5. WHEN time entries require approval THEN the system SHALL integrate with the
   approval workflow system

### Requirement 9: Approval Workflow Interface

**User Story:** As a user, I want to create, manage, and participate in approval
workflows, so that I can ensure proper authorization for important decisions.

#### Acceptance Criteria

1. WHEN a user creates workflows THEN the system SHALL provide a visual workflow
   builder with step configuration

2. WHEN approval requests are submitted THEN the system SHALL notify relevant
   approvers and track progress

3. WHEN users review requests THEN the system SHALL provide approval, rejection,
   delegation, and comment options

4. WHEN workflows are managed THEN the system SHALL provide templates,
   delegation rules, and audit trails

5. WHEN approvals are completed THEN the system SHALL trigger appropriate
   actions and notifications

### Requirement 10: Search and Tagging System

**User Story:** As a user, I want to search across all content and organize
items with tags, so that I can quickly find and categorize information.

#### Acceptance Criteria

1. WHEN a user searches THEN the system SHALL provide unified search across
   tasks, documents, emails, and chat

2. WHEN search results are displayed THEN the system SHALL provide filters,
   suggestions, and result previews

3. WHEN users apply tags THEN the system SHALL support hierarchical tags with
   color coding

4. WHEN tag-based views are accessed THEN the system SHALL provide tag analytics
   and content organization

5. WHEN tags are managed THEN the system SHALL provide tag creation, editing,
   and compliance tracking

### Requirement 11: Client Portal Integration

**User Story:** As a client, I want to access a dedicated portal to view my
engagement status, upload documents, and communicate with my CA, so that I can
stay informed and collaborate effectively.

#### Acceptance Criteria

1. WHEN a client accesses the portal THEN the system SHALL provide a separate,
   branded interface with client authentication

2. WHEN clients view engagements THEN the system SHALL display progress,
   documents, and communication history

3. WHEN clients upload documents THEN the system SHALL provide mobile-friendly
   upload with camera capture

4. WHEN clients communicate THEN the system SHALL provide messaging and feedback
   systems

5. WHEN clients receive notifications THEN the system SHALL provide real-time
   updates and email notifications

### Requirement 12: Mobile and PWA Features

**User Story:** As a user, I want to access the platform on mobile devices with
offline capabilities, so that I can work from anywhere.

#### Acceptance Criteria

1. WHEN users access the platform on mobile THEN the system SHALL provide
   responsive design with touch-optimized interfaces

2. WHEN the platform is installed as PWA THEN the system SHALL provide native
   app-like experience with offline support

3. WHEN users work offline THEN the system SHALL queue actions and sync when
   connectivity is restored

4. WHEN push notifications are enabled THEN the system SHALL provide real-time
   notifications across devices

5. WHEN cross-device sync is active THEN the system SHALL maintain consistent
   state across all user devices

### Requirement 13: Admin and Settings Interface

**User Story:** As an administrator, I want to manage users, configure system
settings, and monitor platform health, so that I can maintain optimal platform
operation.

#### Acceptance Criteria

1. WHEN admins access settings THEN the system SHALL provide user management,
   role configuration, and system settings

2. WHEN system health is monitored THEN the system SHALL provide performance
   metrics, audit logs, and backup status

3. WHEN compliance is managed THEN the system SHALL provide compliance
   dashboards, policy management, and reporting

4. WHEN security is configured THEN the system SHALL provide session management,
   encryption settings, and access controls

5. WHEN backups are managed THEN the system SHALL provide backup scheduling,
   recovery options, and data management

### Requirement 14: Performance and Accessibility

**User Story:** As a user, I want the platform to load quickly and be accessible
to users with disabilities, so that everyone can use the platform effectively.

#### Acceptance Criteria

1. WHEN pages load THEN the system SHALL achieve Core Web Vitals targets with
   optimized performance

2. WHEN users with disabilities access the platform THEN the system SHALL meet
   WCAG 2.1 AA accessibility standards

3. WHEN the platform scales THEN the system SHALL maintain performance under
   high load conditions

4. WHEN errors occur THEN the system SHALL provide graceful error handling with
   user-friendly messages

5. WHEN analytics are collected THEN the system SHALL provide performance
   monitoring and user experience metrics
